Real artists don't starve. Oh, I have to
find the muse and I have to create. And
I kind of think that's [__]
A lot of people will say you have the
number one business channel on YouTube
and you just hired Mr. Beast's former
president.
Think we'll get to a billion dollars.
There's always going to be people saying
podcasts are too crowded, newsletters
are too crowded. What that means is
they're too crowded for crap. Become a
bit in business.
Business content gets a bad rap,
especially on YouTube.
The second that you get money in this
country, we're like, "Sh, don't tell
them how you got here. You were going to
give me six figures to do a TikTok.
Let's go. The more money you have, the
more you can assert your will on the
universe.
Cody, can I see what's on your laptop?
Oh, yeah.
What I would want to do if I was a
creator kind of just starting out, this
is like a a little sneaky hack.
What you just showed us, I feel like is
a master class that nobody ever talks
about.
I'm a mother business. I don't know that
I've really ever talked about all this
stuff publicly because
[Music]
I'm excited to give away my free YouTube
hack pack, which is all my best
templates, tools, and tips to grow on
YouTube. Basically, is everything that
I've learned after working inside
YouTube for 5 years to now growing this
channel, all for free. You'll get my 100
viral video ideas playbook with ideas
for any niche, my 10 intro templates to
improve your hooks with
fill-in-the-blank templates, my
confident on camera masterass, and
literally the thumbnail templates that
I've used to get millions of views. And
as a bonus for this video, Cody actually
offered to give a bunch of the templates
that she uses to grow on YouTube as part
of this as well. So, just go to this
link in the description below or go to
ytackpack.com or check out the QR code
to get it all for free. All right, back
to the video. Cody, welcome to the show.
Thanks for having me. I
I want to talk about the elephant in the
room because business content is, you
know, like gets a bad rap, especially on
YouTube. You know, it's a lot of people
who say they're influencers who have
absolutely no influence at all, people
who claim to have expertise, who don't
have expertise. I'm curious as you
started to like navigate that world, how
did you think about differentiating
because your content feels different and
gets many more views.
Well, you know what? I I was like uh
super freaked out to talk on the
internet at first. Like if you think
about it, like if you look at my
background, like I was in finance and
investing for 12 years. I wasn't I
didn't even have an internet presence
before we started kind of blowing up
three years ago. But then I remember uh
one time that made me chill quite a bit.
I remember we were sending videos back
and forth and it was this guy getting
[__] on like like just like they were
like, "Who's this finance guru? What an
idiot. Like no way." And you know, you
obviously don't know what you what
you're talking about. Like thousands of
comments. And if you're in finance, you
would know that that guy is Ray Dalio.
And you're like, "This is one of the
best investors of all time. He's a
billionaire multiple times over. He runs
something called Bridgewwater Capital.
And people still think he's a fake." So
like, if that's going to happen to him,
it's going to happen to all of us. Which
I think gave me some chill on like, all
right, like people just might not like
you, and that's okay.
You know, if I was to say money is the
root of all.
I mean, the saying goes evil, but I
think it's root of power. It can open
things up. I mean, I'm I'm I'm a kid of
an immigrant, so I think I view it a bit
differently.
Totally. But like, why? If we were to
ask a real, I go into these speaking
events, money is the root of all, and
everybody goes, "Evil." You're like,
where? Who programmed that? Like, who
said that it had to be that way? How
come it's scammy if we talk about money?
How come it's scammy if we talk about
business? Oh, of course, because if we
talk about it, then we're going to get
more of it and then we can push back on
the people who have it.
And so, I I just don't like that. So,
I'm like, "No, I'm going to talk about
it." Because when I was young and
hungry, nobody told me how to make
money. It was super confusing. So, I
never had any and I didn't have any
understanding of financial literacy. And
I wish somebody would have talked about
it in like simple terms instead of the
second that you get money in this
country were like, "Don't tell them how
you got here, you know, because that
would be gross or that would be scammy."
Like, no, actually, that's just like
putting a hand down. So, that's my moral
high ground that I get on sometimes
about cash. Well, I think, you know,
it's funny as I've been doing more
interviews with big creators, they've
shown me a lot of stuff behind the
scenes. I've seen their brainstorming
documents. I've seen their notion docs,
their processes, and I kid you not, when
um your team showed me your notion page
and some of your pro like
like I I felt like a part of my brain
that I didn't even know existed like
started to like blow open because it's
the way you approach it and some some of
the systems. I wanted to ask you about
that. Um because I think a lot of folks,
myself included, just do things and we
don't have a system around it. So, we
end up recreating the wheel.
Um, how do you approach your business as
a creator to make it so you can scale
and grow much more quickly than a lot of
the other folks you may see out there?
Yeah. Well, the first thing overall we
do before the tools and tactics is
really like a mindset thing. Like,
haven't you heard a ton of creators say
like, "Well, I got burned out, so I
didn't want to do it anymore." I think
burnout actually happens because we
don't have processes.
Yeah, well said. So if we had processes
and systems and people and ways that we
followed along to things, we wouldn't
burn out.
Yeah.
Um it's the fact that because we're
creators, sometimes we believe this
mindset that like uh I can only video
myself so much. Oh, this is so hard. And
one thing that I had lucky is like
investment banking and asset management
is miserable. So I worked a lot. And so
you know our joke at our firm is like
everybody's okay. Like we're just making
Tik Toks on the internet. Like nobody's
going to die. And so one, you have to
like not take yourself that serious. One
of my favorite philosophers, Alan Watts,
says that. He says, "The universe is
very sincere, but it's not so serious."
And I think that's true. Um, so one,
like don't believe what other creators
say because they say that stuff because
a lot of times we creators want to mimic
artists, I think, and artists have this
like ethereal nature to them, right?
They're like, "Oh, I have to find the
muse and I have to create and like
they've got this whole thing." And I
kind of think that's [__] I think
you show up and you keep working and
then the muse finds you and like you
just that's how it goes.
And so I think it sounds much cooler to
like have this ethereal mysterious way
that you create but I think that's the
same thing that people do when they make
money. They're like oh you know it just
it found me how big this business got. I
just I could barely. And that's not
true. And it's the same with creating. I
also really like this rule in finance
which is the rule of thirds. Have you
heard of this? Hm. Well, tell me about
it. I know the rule of thirds in terms
of cameras and like
Oh, interesting. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
So, like the rule of thirds in in in
business is basically like you get
taught kind of early that um
like one-third of your time you're going
to be uh you're going to be great. It's
going to be awesome to be a creator or
whatever job you have, you're going to
really like it. Then more one-third of
your time, you're going to be kind of
neutral or it'll be you'll be slightly
stretched, but you'll be kind of fine.
And then oneird of your time you're
going to be miserable. Like dark, awful,
miserable, overwhelmed, inundated.
But the cool thing is they cycle. So
like when you're in one, just know like
you're not going to stay there. So just
the next one's coming. The next one's
coming. And so if I know all of that,
then I don't burn out because I have the
right mindset. I realize this is just
going to happen for a period and I keep
going. And then the way that you keep
yourself sort of honest on all this is I
think the only way to build a big
business is with people. And I realized
that early on, which meant that like I
had to get the things that I saw out of
my head and into a process. Otherwise, I
was going to go crazy with people asking
me again and again what I think.
Yeah.
But anytime something that we do has
more than three steps and we do it more
than three times, we try to write it
down and create an SOP. You know, I joke
with with the team and sometimes I'll be
on stage and I'll be like, "What's my
love language?" You know, and they're
like, "SOPs?" You know,
can you define SOP for people who don't
know what that stands for? It stands for
a system and proc system and processes
and um
and maybe Cody to put that in context
like you have this great saying of like
you should have more SOPs than a pilot
does when they're taking off.
Um because a pilot is like they have to
check so many different things and it's
a repetitive process. Um what are some
of those SOPs that you have or like talk
to me about that because I feel like a
lot of creators don't even know what
that stands for let alone how to
implement it. Yeah, it's definitely a
business particular thing, but yeah, if
you think about a pilot, they have a
little checklist they do every time.
Even right now for our podcast, I was
annoyed because I'm sure people can
relate. Like, we were making the same
mistake again and again.
And I was like, why? We have an SOP. So,
we have a checklist for like, all right,
you schedule the guest. What happens?
You send out a text to the guest. What
text is it? You ask them what their
drink order is. You ask them uh how soon
they need to be out. You ask them um
what like what is their website? What is
their contact information? You check in
with them the day of. The lights go on
in the room. The AC goes on like 15
minutes before because sometimes it gets
cold in there. Like everything single
thing you can and you build it. It's
like a living breathing document. But
the problem is your documents are only
good as what's called your
implementation. So you actually taking
the thing and using it.
And so for our podcast for instance,
this is like a little sneaky hack. Our
generation is so technological that a
lot of times our SOPs or our processes
go on our phones, right? Mhm.
So you're like, "Yeah, we'll check it
off on there, but what else is on our
phone?" It's like every distraction
known to man ever. And so I had the team
print out and laminate an SOP. And I'm
like, "Before we do anything, where is
it?" And so then we have our little
lamination and we check it off as we go.
Why? Because there's no distractions.
It's like, "Where's the thing? This is
it. I get to look at it." the best idea
uh SOPs ideally you take a screenshot or
you take a picture of it and everybody
signs off what they did
and this sounds kind of annoying and
over the top but I learned it from
boring businesses because that's what
you have to do with technicians in the
trades. I am like listening to this and
I'm like okay we we got to do this with
our process
the laminated I mean the team at first
was like why would you do something so
weird and I was like I promise you it
will change your life because it'll just
be there like you can't you can't not do
it it's right in front of your face.
Yeah.
And so um that's one example. Um another
one would be
probably for creators listening like you
do something and you do it to the level
that you want and then you pass it off
to somebody else and it's not as good.
Right. Yeah. Yeah,
it's like how do you get them to have
your voice? And that would really annoy
me. Like I would see an email go out for
us or something like that and um my
friend Aean and I call it um writing
love letters to whom it may concern.
So, you know, could you imagine? Of
course you wouldn't do that. That would
be crazy,
right?
But sometimes
Yeah. opening the letter with to whom it
may concern, which is Yeah.
That would not be good. Yeah. No.
You know, you would want to say their
name. You wouldn't wouldn't you would
want to talk to them like they were a
human. So I was finding in some of our
emails that they were being written like
this. Um
I don't know dear reader uh thank you so
much for being a part of this endeavor
that we are doing together. Uh we feel
strongly in the future of you as one of
our customers. Should you have any
inquiry please feel free to reach out to
our team here. No person would ever
speak like that and yet we write that
way because we're kind of trained.
Yeah.
And so I found a few of those from the
team. lost it and uh wrote out what I
call uh speaking like a contrarian.
And so it's basically a set of ideas and
then examples of what good voice looks
like and what bad voice looks like
and then a couple things you could do to
get better at it. So it's like checklist
again because I love me a checklist.
Like every time you're going to send
something to our people, read it out
loud
because if you just read what I said,
you would go, "Oh, I would never talk
like that."
Right? And so that's one thing that I
think is really helpful for us.
Yeah. I in fact your team um showed me a
lot of these docs. I wanted to pull that
one exactly like how to speak like a
contrarian. Maybe point out some of the
things that because I think like
scaling your voice is a really hard
thing to figure out um for creators like
maybe point some of the examples of
things.
Yeah. Well, you know what would be funny
is like um wonder if you had our first
version in here. So sometimes I keep No,
I think I took it out. Oh yeah, this is
a first version. Okay. So listen to the
difference between these two. So in the
beginning, somebody else wrote this for
me because I was curious. Do they have
my voice? Could you do it? And here's
what they wrote. Contrarian blog
principles. In order to achieve those
goals, we must ensure we would use this
ourselves or with our members. If we
would not use the information ourselves,
blah blah blah, you get it. My version.
I'm here to show you how to not bore
everyone to death when you write about
when you write about a word people can
barely spell. Acquisitions. Oh, and
everything else we talk about. Here's
the problem with most content these
days. It's a bunch of nerd marketers
trying to write love letters, but their
subject line says to whom it may concern
amateurs. You're not going to be them.
You're going to serenate our people. The
point being, this one is technically
right. It's like
we would use this ourselves except what
follows is [__] you would never say. And
so I think it's really helpful to them
compare and contrast because otherwise
you'll miss you you'll read this first
part and go oh this is good but unless
you see bad can't tell what good is.
That's so because I find I struggle with
this because I'm like I see a lot of bad
stuff and I just fix it
and then I'm like let's continue on put
our head down and get the thing out
there
but then inevitably it happens a lot
like so you think like having the
contrast of what the earlier draft was
if somebody was doing it for you
100%. Yeah, I mean if you'll see in here
we have throughout I one of my favorite
uh investing mentors of all time said
that he said nothing is good or bad
except by comparison. And so that's
largely true. Until you've seen beauty,
like real beauty, you can't really
understand if something's ugly.
And so we'll use real examples.
Um and so we do that and then we'll have
little bullets and it'll be like boring,
wordy, obvious. And then a good example
might say, "This is great. You use the
word you a lot." That's everybody's
favorite word besides their name.
You know, you hit on emotions, you make
them feel something. And so I do think
that good or bad contrast is really
useful.
Yeah, that's really helpful to keep the
bad example. Otherwise, you won't know
what changed.
Yeah. I mean, Sam Parr, one of my good
friends who sold a business called The
Hustle. Yeah.
He kind of taught me this with
copywriting back in the day and
basically said, one, if you want to get
really good at copy or writing or video
or speaking or anything, what do you do
first? you go watch or read really good
copy. Yeah. So, if you guys wanted to
get good at sales emails, you'd go to
contrarianthinking.co,
you'd put in your email address and
you'd watch all of our emails that come
out and you'd be like, "Ah, I like that.
I don't like that."
Uh, and then you would contrast it. So,
then you'd go to like the worst
newspaper you could think of, you know,
or the worst news site and you'd see
what they do
and then then you find your voice in
between the two.
Yeah. And so we kind of came up with a
bunch of different ideas about what
viral might be. And usually with our
content, we place them in buckets. Like
we have pillars of content we create. We
have buckets. And so some of them might
be is there an audience specific pain
point or desire? Like how do you make a
million dollars when you have zero?
Audience wants it. Plus it's kind of
painful, right? Evoke emotion. Um you
know I think young people don't work
hard enough today. Well that's going to
piss some people off. Moment. um
specificity and numbers. So I found a
study where a 100 thousand people said
that if that you do this one thing, you
will be more successful, right? Study we
found um motivate. So is there a line in
there where you're like, "Oo, that
line's so good. I almost want to tweet
it."
Look, um credibility credibility hack.
So this one's kind of interesting if
you're a new creator.
So if you're a new creator, you probably
already noticed this, but maybe you
don't have a lot of credibility. Can you
steal somebody else's? And that's what a
lot of young people do when they're
like, "Here's how Elon Musk made his
why. Here's how Jeff Bezos. Here's the
secret to Amazon's first million,
whatever." So, you don't always have to
be the expert if you can borrow somebody
else's 10,000 hours. So, we use that as
well. And then maybe the only one that I
think is really useful is um
it's why use five when you can use one,
which means if you're going to say
something, let's say it cleanly and
concisely and directly. And every time
we look at a script or at something
we're going to create, I want to value
my audience so highly and their time
even more than them that I'm exing out
anything that isn't absolutely
necessary.
And so a lot of times our team,
especially like for instance, you know,
Christian, he'll get a first draft of a
script for something and the second
draft is basically just can we cut 30%
of it? Mhm.
And even with the book, I started with a
book that was probably
390 pages
and whittleled it down to 270.
Yeah.
Because to in today's day and age, you
don't need more information. You need
the exact right information at the exact
right time and nothing else.
Yeah. And the graphics, I felt like it
was like a very modern read. like I I I
went through this in one sitting just
like going through and like all the like
maybe it's cuz I was also preparing for
this but it was awesome just to see a
lot of these visuals that I also want to
talk to you about cuz it was just
different than most business books. I
don't even want to call it self-help
because that's like a another term but
uh yeah I thought your approach was
really different.
Well, thank you. Yeah. Yeah, we tried to
use um I mean I think the adage a
picture is worth a thousand words is
true
and I think a picture that shows what
you want to demonstrate without words is
extra worth thousand words. So like a
lot of what we went for is you know I'm
a big fan of like a somebody I could
loosely call a friend Jack Butcher
and he has a a a site called Visualize
Value. Have you seen it?
Yeah. Yeah. Super minimalist like design
like but conveys a ton of information.
Yeah. Exactly. and and it came back to
that idea of like if you why use five if
you can use one. And so I don't know
about you, but it's a lot easier for me
to remember how something looked like or
um I can picture in my head when
somebody's talking about a ven
diagramraph with three overlapping
circles that show me in the middle the
perfect fit business for me. Like I can
now picture that. But if I was just to
say, "Well, what you should do is you
should use your skills, talents, and
passions in order to find a perfect fit
business." Out of my head. Gone. I don't
even remember that sentence.
Yeah. Um, Cody, can I see what's on your
laptop?
Oh, yeah. Like like can we see like
close all the uh the details tabs,
Tanner?
Okay. So, this is called the content
control room.
Basically, what this is is I'm really
big in business and in life and like how
can I get a message in like 30 seconds
so I don't have to waste a lot of time.
Yeah.
Because there's something called
decision fatigue, which is like the more
you have to think about things and make
decisions, the more you struggle. And so
if every time you're trying to like
piece together information,
you can't move very fast. And so this is
our content control room, which
basically hosts all of our platform
pages. So social, whichever social
channel, uh quick links to things that
people might need, our resources, which
would be like our goals and KPIs, key
performance indicators. Um SOPs, we got
to use less acronyms. It's so annoying.
So finance of me. So all of our systems
and processes. Um, and then we try to
have a playbook for every platform that
gets updated with some frequency.
Um, and so you're looking at kind of
where I can centrally see all of these
things.
The cool part about notion, I'm not
sponsored, but I'm open to it. And, uh,
Notion in particular is really
searchable.
Yeah.
And now it has an AI feature to it. So,
the incredible part is um, you can teach
your team
how to self-provision,
which is now I think if you talk to any
member of my team, they'd be like,
"Well, Cody didn't make this. I did, but
uh you know, she influenced it, but I
don't even know if she'd know how to
find it. Like that's where you want to
get to.
Yes. Yeah.
Um so
what you're seeing in the bottom, you're
seeing this is our weekend content.
Probably most creators have this. It's
like every single platform, what's going
out when. Um so we know what's coming.
We're not always perfect again on this
you guys, but um we do have that. One of
the things that I think is good is for
instance if you went to like
um let's say our
Oh, this is funny. Okay, we have one
called um things to know about Cody.
So So one time we had this uh tweet go
out. It's like our infamous tweet and I
had just tried a Twitter uh writer which
I had never done before.
Like a ghost writer or something.
Yeah, like a ghost writer. Yeah. And uh
they wrote a Twitter thread that went
viral. This is a weird thing to go viral
about too. It was about um I think it
was about P&Ls like how to read a
profit.
All right.
I don't know. Um so anyway, most boring
subject ever goes super viral. Small
issue in the very beginning like the
third line in the tweet was um I worked
at Goldman Sachs for uh seven years. I
only worked there for two.
I didn't catch it. Usually I review
almost every piece of our content. I
didn't catch it. At the end of this, you
know, millions of people see it,
whatever. You could only imagine. It's
like, you're a liar. You were there for
two years. You were probably just a
secretary. People go crazy.
So, I created this things to know about
Cody, which is basically as you scale,
people are going to write things about
you. They're going to do first drafts
across your team. And
you have to like scale your knowledge.
And so this is literally just a rolodex
of like, hey, when did I leave this
business? What businesses do we own
today?
In our business, because we're in
finance, I'm really particular about
we got to make sure we're right
on everything that we put out.
So if we sold a business last week and
now we only have 26 businesses, but we
used to say we had 27, we better update
that [__]
And so um that's helpful to know like
things to know about Cody. And as you
schedule, that might be the same thing
because the bigger you get, even for you
as a podcast host, they're going to
write maybe a first draft of a thread
for you, maybe a first draft of a blog,
and you're probably going to miss a few
things, and so it allows you to
duplicate yourself that way.
Cody, how do you track like what does
well so that you don't repeat those
mistakes?
Yeah. So, we have a scorecard. I'll
actually Should I show it to you?
I would love to see that. Yeah. Yeah.
All right. I'll have to see how bad
we're doing here. Okay. So, um, because
I'm a finance nerd, everything we do is
kind of, um, it's in a spreadsheet.
And the idea is we take a goal, like
let's say we want to hit a million
subscribers this year. We take that
goal, we break it down by year,
month, week, day, and uh, we read out
each week on our goals to see as a team,
how are we doing?
Like in your weekly meeting.
In our weekly meeting, yeah, we have two
weekly meetings that are relevant for
the whole company. Um, and this one's
just a content meeting.
And in it, we'll go through this this uh
scorecard. So, from here, we'll talk
about what is our weekly growth goals.
And weekly growth goals are useful
because then you don't get overwhelmed
at the end of the year, like, oh my god,
we're so far off.
We we track net new followers, which you
can see. We also track how far are we
from goal. So, you can see in some of
these, like we haven't filled in the
data here, so it looks really off, but
in these it's like, ah, we're a little
bit behind, but not a ton. Um each
platform gets a scorecard. So from our
newsletters to uh YouTube to Instagram,
um Tik Tok. Yeah.
And at this stage we have a big team
which most people do when they get to
money.
How big is the team right now?
I mean we probably have because it's a
little confusing because we have people
who aren't just content, right? Um so I
don't know, maybe there's like 12 people
in content.
Wow. And then uh the business overall is
more like 40.
Wow.
Um and then that doesn't obviously
include Main Street Holding Company
which is our our uh main business and
there we would have hundreds but under
in the underlying company. So it's it's
a big operation.
Yeah.
Um and and a lot of that is because my
time doesn't scale as well.
So um like maybe one other interesting
thing to see here here's our like
filming agenda for today. Mhm.
So, you can every single day that we're
filming
Yeah.
my team sends me this and basically
said, "Here's everything that we're
doing. Here's the locations. Uh stuff to
remember each day." Like, it's funny.
What do we do for a living? They're
like, "Take a selfie with the audience."
[__] weird. And then stuff to to film
in between.
So, we try to have like basically no
downtime because I just want to motor.
Yeah.
With everything else we have going on.
But this could be useful for people. Um
because I do think a lot of times
there's a there's a principle that I
can't remember the name of, but it's
basically that tasks take up the amount
of time allotted to the task.
Parkinson's law.
There you go.
Yeah.
And so we've found that again and again
with content because content is like
never really finished.
And so you can continue to draw it out
or you can say we have this amount of
time with a deadline. We hit deadlines
at this company.
Yeah. There's this great quote I forget
who said it but it's like art is never
finished. It's just abandoned. That's I
think that's exactly right.
Yeah.
And
you know and like the beautiful part
about the internet today is that it's
iterative, right? And so if you don't
love the thing that you put out today,
then you can remix it. You can do
another version of it. You can apply
principles to it. Yeah.
A lot of times our best ideas,
especially for short form, we'll come up
with the idea once. It'll do really well
and then we won't edit that video. We'll
completely reshoot it, but it's the same
idea.
Like what's an example? Um there's one
uh video we have called the bathwater
method.
Oh yeah.
Which is basically uh it's a it's a
business buying method. So how do you
buy a business without money when the
business is in need of a turnaround?
It's struggling.
And so that did really well. We kind of
explained, okay, well here's what you
do. You look for this type of owner. You
do it this way. And all of this was
written in front of a chalkboard.
And we had like I don't know a couple
million views on the first one.
And so I was like, oh this is
interesting. So let's create some more
content around bathwater method people
like
which is a term you coined.
I coined. Correct.
Yeah. Which I think you're also that's
another thing I want to get into like
you're very good at these frameworks and
like even boring business is a term.
Yeah.
You know
Yeah. I do think we Yeah. We came up
with I don't know if we came up with
boring businesses but we might have and
we definitely popular. Yeah. Yeah.
And then um bathwater method we
certainly did. And um and the only
difference between a video that you
might see it might there might be one
coming out tomorrow. Well you'll be able
to whenever this goes out anyway. Um,
the second version we won't film in
front of a chalkboard. Maybe that one
will film on a whiteboard or maybe that
one will have like an image of a
bathtub. Or if the team is always trying
to get me to get into a bathtub, I say
no
because I think you have to set up some
rules in this game. Otherwise, you just
revert to Only Fans, you know. I think
it's a straight line to porn actually.
So, I said no to the bathtub. Um, but
yeah.
Yeah. Um, anything else like like
processes like templates and and I'm
curious, it seems like you're like this
is running without you.
Oh, yeah. Well, this
or how how or I guess how involved are
you in the pre-production? Because I
find that's another area of struggle for
a lot of creators. It's like, okay, we
could get everything ready for the shoot
day, but if the script isn't ready, if
we're not shooting at the right
location, the hook isn't like, how
involved are you before you get to the
shoot day?
Yeah. Well, let's see. At this point, I
would say almost no pieces of content go
out at this company without me reviewing
it.
Um, we're still at that stage. Yeah.
It's also because I like it.
Yeah.
So, you know, I'm not at that stage with
our investments, for instance. I I don't
Most of the companies that we own, I
don't operate. I get weekly and
quarterly reviews. Um, but those have
great CEOs. I've been in finance for a
long time, so I know how to do that.
I've only been doing content for like
three years, so I find it fun.
Yeah.
So, I review every single piece of
content. I still write a decent amount
of it, I would say, but much less over
the last year. And instead, I do a lot
of like voice noting like, "Hey, this is
how we should do it." Or I'll write like
a marquee piece of content. And then
they'll sort of tear it up
or even in preparation for this and some
interviews we have tomorrow. I'll think
really hard on a piece like
here's why I think our society is
falling apart because we don't have
ownership. And then I'll go and look up
all the stats I think confirm that and
I'll check my biases and I'll do a
really in-depth piece. And then I'll
push it to the team and say like
repurpose this across multiple angles.
Um because your subject matter
expertise, at least when it comes to my
stuff, it's it's hard to replicate.
Um this one's kind of fun. So one thing
we want to get better at, this is called
Cody Brand plus cult sayings. So we we
want our community to feel integrated
and like they're part of us
and that's not that normal in finance
and business. Um and so we wanted them
to have words that would
identify them, right? So just like a
sports team.
Yeah.
And so we came up with like stuff that
we say all the time and then started
sort of testing it with the environment
like what what do people like? Where are
they reposting us? And then we found a
few that they really seem to resonate
with and so we went hard on those. And
so now like if you go on Instagram every
single day I'm getting tagged in, you
know, a business where they're doing
something intense or a workout that's
intense and it's choose your hard
and so um that was useful and we have
like a ton of these.
What are some of those cultings?
Well, choose your heart is the first
one. Um Main Street over Wall Street.
Uh that's a big one. We're going to do a
tour on that. Dirty hands, filthy bank
accounts.
Um, move fast break things. We didn't
popularize that one.
Um, blue collar nation.
Uh, unemployable. We focus a lot on that
one. And, uh, investing is math, not
feelings.
So, a lot of these became things that
people would repeat back to us and then
we would try to keep.
Yeah. And I imagine this makes it easier
to like bring new people on the team
because they get a download of
everything in your world.
Yeah. Exactly. And then it also is like
a through line we can have through
everything that we do. You know when you
watch like Wes Anderson just from the
color scheme, you know it's Wes
Anderson, right?
And then if you hear a score from like
who's the guy that did uh Bad Boys?
Um Michael Bay.
This is so easy with you. You know the
answers to all these. What else do you
have in there?
I watched too many. I actually went on a
whole Michael Bay binge recently, but I
mean he has a whole cinematic style like
Right. And you have to assume, I mean,
I've never met Michael Bay, but I'd like
to. Maybe we should put him on the
podcast list,
but I love that you just by listening to
him, not his songs, he's not the singer,
he's not the artist, but just by
listening to a score of his movie, you
can tell it's a Michael Bay movie.
Same thing with Wes Anderson. And I
remember like a billion years ago, I got
to meet Quinton Tarantino. And um the
most interesting part uh to me about
Quinton Tarantino is he is like exactly
who he is in his videos. Like in his
movies I met him in real life. I was
like you're just as creepy. Like you're
just as you know
and I also want to have that for us.
Like I want our content to feel so real
to me so that like when you're watching
me on YouTube and we're hanging out on
YouTube together but then you meet me in
the street you're like same person.
Because that's like, you know how people
say, "Don't meet your heroes." I hate
that.
Yeah.
I want if somebody meets me, maybe they
hate me online and they hate me in
person. Cool. But like, let's keep it
the same, you know? Let's be the same
person either way.
Yeah.
Um, Cody, can I can we give some of
these notion templates that you've built
away to the audience?
Do you think they think they're useful?
I think I mean, I was going through like
I'm already thinking about ways we could
implement them on our team. Only if
you're comfortable. But I feel like
that'd be a cool thing. Uh,
100%.
Maybe like uh how do we want to do this?
Maybe like people give their email or uh
Yes. Why don't you go? I'll give you a
link and we'll scrub all of my social
security numbers off them.
And then if you input in your email, you
can go ahead and get it just linked down
below in this video.
Perfect. Let's put it down there. And
then um we'll also maybe add some of the
like main takeaways from this as well
because there's so many things I feel
like people could like grasp on to maybe
a PDF or something like that.
Okay, cool. Well, and and then let us
know too if you think this is useful or
not. Yeah.
Um and we can dig in deeper. This one's
kind of cool, too. Maybe the last one.
Yeah.
This is um my mission control.
God, we are we're kind of nerds. I
didn't realize what we named all this
stuff now that I think about.
Is this like a NASA control center or is
this like content?
No. What's happening here? I do like
space and rockets. Okay, so um the
mission control is cool because this is
the only thing I look at when it comes
to content to review. And because I
don't have a lot of time, it's very
particular. It's like stack ranked for
when we're going to post, what is the
name of it, and then status. And you can
see like there's a lot of statuses in
here. So it's like idea dump on hold.
Cody approves the idea. Uh Cody needs
some input, final version, ready to
film, uh ready to schedule. I mean,
there's a lot. And what's nice about
this is like I don't see anything. I
don't have to. And I know every single
day like I just go in there, maybe I
spend 20 minutes, I'm like bam, bam,
bam, bam, bam. And the team has a
process to work through every aspect of
it. And again, this is how you don't
burn out because
um you know, you want to try to keep
being a creator creative for the things
that matter. You know what doesn't
matter? How you review your videos every
day. No, no benefit to you making that
up every single time.
But keep your creative juices for the
things that matter and then go on
autopilot for the things that don't.
I feel so seen right now.
Seen attacked, but in a good way.
Are you into processes, too? Well, we're
trying to create them and uh you know,
Amanda, like my wife and COO, she's very
good at like trying to put those in. But
yeah, it's like kind of a push and pull
of like trying to put out the best
stuff, put it out fast enough, but
trying to Yeah. make it so other people
can take it as far as possible before I
come in.
Yeah. I mean, the other thing I think is
important, too, is like we want to build
I mean, I'm trying to build something
kind of giant here. Um, I want to build
like the 21st century media company
and I I don't know that I've really ever
talked about all this stuff publicly
because we're very focused on like what
serves job working John, right? And
that's who we're trying to serve. But
when I think about it, I'm like I think
my generation, the finance company of of
me was like Bloomberg.
They were where you went to for news.
You also logged in and financed your
Bloomberg terminal. Like that's where
you went.
And these days it's like where do you
go? like most of the finance news is
kind of trash or it's about the stock
market. I'm like nobody should be day
trainee that's a terrible idea. So um so
we're trying to build that and if I want
to build like a lasting company that can
exist beyond my time I have to build it
out in a way where I am not the single
point of failure.
Yeah.
And I think the moment that you do that
too is the moment you unlock all this
creative ability too because then I mean
we're talking about Hannah and I are
like okay what documentary are we going
to do next? like, do we want to do some
full feature films? Who's the next
talent we want to bring in? But it all
started with like, hey, I just don't
want to edit this video.
Yeah.
And so, can I make a process where
somebody else could follow that? And
that's a beautiful thing if that's where
you are today.
I mean, so many people say that to see
you do it is really interesting. And the
behind the scenes.
Yeah. There's no there's no accidents in
success. Yeah. Like, and I think you
probably see it even more in creators.
They're like, "The thing is I'm
authentic." You're like, "Yes, but like
Yeah. No, let's go a little bit deeper.
Like let's get all those humble answers
out of the way. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. I agree.
Cody, can you break down your income pie
chart?
Like what are all the different ways you
make money? And if I could ask like
you're very open about finance your how
much money do you make last year?
O a lot. Are you the IRS?
Real quick, we'll get right back to the
video. But one of my favorite parts of
the interview is coming up and that's
where Cody breaks down her different
businesses and how you can make money as
a creator. And one of the biggest ways
you could do that is by selling online
courses. Which is why I'm so excited to
tell you about Thinkic. the sponsor of
this video. Thinkific is an amazing
platform for launching your course and
turning your expertise into a thriving
business. But I love Thinkic because
their tools are easy to use, they look
professional, and you can tailor fit
them to your brand. And it's not just
courses. With Thinkic, you can sell
digital downloads, workshops, webinars,
community spaces for members, and even
one-on-one private coaching sessions.
And there's so much more that Thinkific
has to offer from customuilt landing
pages to marketing emails, easy
integrations with other creator tools
like Salesforce and Mailchimp. But my
favorite feature, Thinkific doesn't just
help you build, it helps you sell with
order bumps, product bundles, and even
financing options. They make it easier
for your audience to say yes. So, if
you're ready to turn your expertise into
income, then get started with Thinkic by
using my link below. All right, back to
the video.
You going to do I have to report it?
Um, I mean, a couple ways we could talk
about this. So,
how I make mo the most money is through
our Main Street holding company. So that
company does nine figures a year.
Wow.
And more than that, like it varies. It
can go up and down. It's it's going up
quite a bit right now, but sometimes we
sell a company. So I guess KG sometimes
is sharing exactly how much we make
because what if we sell a company and
then it's not nine figures.
So sometimes I think about that. But
that's Main Street holding company.
That's where we make most of our money.
Um you know, it's safe to say we're
making eight figures a year pretty
healthy uh every year. and uh contrarian
thinking our media company is the same.
That business
definitely makes good eight figures a
year in revenue. So that's our media
business and how we make money there. So
Main Street holding company owns like
resibrands which is a trade services
franchise. So that's like a company
called Pinks and that one Painter and um
there's Garage Up in there. There's um
you know a couple defense companies.
There's so that that thing is probably
where we make most of our cash. The
second is uh Contrarian Thinking.
So Contrarian Thinking is a media
company that owns our education
business, which is where we teach people
how to buy businesses, build businesses,
and eventually sell businesses.
Yep.
We have some sponsorships and
partnerships in there. That's probably
like seven figures a year.
Um the
uh let's see, what else do we make
money? AdSense, small amount. Like
I don't know how much we make. How much
do you think we make in ad dollars a
year?
Yeah. Couple hundredk.
Yeah. A couple hundredk.
Yeah.
Um the And what else do we do? Oh, and
and then we're working on more
affiliates. So, where do we own a
portion of a company
inside of Contrarian Thinking, not the
Main Street Holding Company, that we get
paid a percentage in revenue share and
distributions, and we own part of that
company.
And then we have Contrarian Thinking
Capital, which is our venture capital.
Yeah. Company. And there we mostly don't
make any money. That's a cost center,
not a profit center. Um, and that
business maybe will become a profit
center as we continue to grow. Um, and
then we have one independent company
that's big called Biscout, but that
company just costs me millions of
dollars and that's us. That's our small
business buying and selling marketplace.
Sort of like Zillow, but for small
businesses.
And uh, we hope to make a lot of money
on that business one day, but right now
it just
it costs me money instead. I think
Biscout and Main Street Holding Company
are like my multi-billion dollar place.
M
like Main Street holding company I think
will get to a billion dollars. Um and
you know there are a few billion dollar
businesses in both contrarian thinking
capital and Main Street holding company
but we just don't own 100% of them.
Yep.
So um so we'll see. But at this stage,
you know, the idea is for most of the
money we make, can we plow as much as
humanly possible back into both content
to continue to grow,
our investments to continue to grow
them, and then I'm not like that flashy
probably like I mean, you don't see me
really posting anything flashy on the
internet. It's not really my ideal. I
just want to see us grow.
Yeah. If I could zoom in onto the income
pie chart of like the media company, um
the sponsorships thing is really
interesting. like that doesn't seem to
be a big portion of your uh revenue.
Not right now.
Uhuh.
Do you remember when you started out
what your first brand deal was? Because
it's interesting to talk to you about
this because I think you have experience
on both sides of the table as a creator
like maybe being approached with um
brand deals and then being on the other
side with companies that you may want to
work with folks who could extend your
reach work with creator like what tips
or what do you remember about your early
days of brand deals and like how would
you recommend creators go about
negotiating them? I think I actually did
a first brand deal when I was first on
the internet with
Kind Bar. Is that the name of a of a
bar?
I probably have an NDA, but whatever.
[__] it. Like I remember it was the most
miserable engagement for me. It was like
you have to take a picture of this and
then you have to send it back and then
we need to edit it and here you have to
have a 47 page long caption that XYZ.
And doing that first engagement I was
just like I hate my life. I can't
believe I'm doing this. Am I getting
paid a thousand bucks? like what is
wrong with me? But I kind of thought I
had to try it.
And so, ever since then, a couple
things. One, we only do partnerships and
sponsorships with companies that we own
outright, we own part of, or we are
massive fans of, and we use
aggressively. So, like I just did one,
we'll give them some free love, but uh
with Eight Sleep
and um
I'm obsessed with Eight Sleep. One, the
founder is really a cool guy. uh a
couple of them are, but um like if you
use their product and you have are in a
relationship like maybe you two, I sleep
at 95 degrees on the eightle mattress on
my side. My husband sleeps at 68 on
accident. We flipped ours one night and
I have never had a more miserable night
of sleep. I was like so upset. I
couldn't figure out why I couldn't
sleep. I was so cold. Then I realized it
the next day and so like that product I
just love. So I'll talk about it.
Um so that's one thing I learned. The
second thing I learned is I think as a
creator, you've really got to protect
you got to protect your art a little
bit.
And with with partnerships and
sponsorships, I think you need somebody
in the middle.
And so, um, in the beginning, I tried to
take some of those sponsorships and
partnerships. And if you do that and you
engage with them and you don't like the
back and forth, what you create will be
influenced by it. And so, maybe I'm just
relatively unemployable and, you know, I
don't like people telling me what to do,
but that was hard for me in the
beginning. And now we have somebody who
works with all the brands and we take
very few and we only do six figure
partnerships. There's no no small voice
stuff.
And um we got lucky doing that I think
because I saw like brands come to us all
the time and they're going to come to
all creators. Let me tell you why.
Because on average they want like they
want like a 5 to 10x return on ad spend
which is how they would think about
creators for us. And so you guys know
this all too well. So, if they're making
10 bucks or I'm sorry, if they're paying
you $1, they're making five or 10 on
everything that you do. And not only are
they making five or 10 right away
over the the lifetime value of the LTV
of the user is maybe double, triple,
quadruple that.
And so, and they don't even measure the
LTV because that's hard to do over time.
They're never going to pay you on the
LTV, which is why so many creators
create their own brands. the brands
either have to realize that they want a
significant partnership with you for
life or for a very long time or they're
going to pay a premium for it. Uh or uh
creators create their own things. And so
I think that's why so many of our
products are things we've created
ourselves or I will like reach out to a
brand in particular. Like for instance,
I just pinged um I just pinged the head
of Cameo because I have a cool idea that
I use their product for a lot and I just
pinged the head of Loom
because I want to do something with
them.
Yeah.
But uh I'm like I'm saying no to every,
you know,
finance app imaginable
and they'll pay a lot too.
What's what's the biggest brand deal
you've said no to?
Uh well, I probably wouldn't say the
name because I don't want to be too much
of a dick, but um uh there's been a I
mean, there are six figure, multi6figure
deals we say no to often, which is like
cool to be able to do. I never thought
like back in the day, you were going to
give me six figures to do a TikTok.
Let's [__] go. But um but now I've
realized the truth, which is
you're only as good as your reputation
is online. And who knows, at some point
I might get cancelled for something, but
it better be for something I did, not
something some other [__] company
did. And I've seen too many of my
friends, I saw some like Anthony
Pompiano, good friend of mine, Pomp. He
got murdered because of some um crypto
companies that he backed including FTX.
And Pomp is a smart,
like diligent,
very good investor who's made a ton of
money. And that reputation was hard to
get back.
And so I'm thoughtful on making sure
that I don't partner with [__] Fizer
or something and then regret it later.
Another thing you've done really well is
your newsletter. And I feel like the
newsletter space is getting super
crowded now. Um, and just about every
other creator, YouTuber is trying to
start one. Like, how would you try to
cut through and grow a newsletter? Let's
say they're already doing all the
basics. They're consistent. They found
their niche. They found their voice.
Like, how would you grow a newsletter um
in today's crowded environment?
Well, one, I would ask yourself this,
like sometimes I think reframing helps,
right? Because that is a good question.
But also, do you think that companies
ever get created and then go should we
create an email list or not?
Or like it's kind of created uh crowded
to have an email list. Of course they
don't. Of course they have an email
list. Every company you've ever engaged
with has an email list. If you're a
creator, you're a company of one or a
company of a few. So one, just know that
like there's always going to be people
saying podcasts are too crowded.
Newsletters are too crowded. What that
means is they're too crowded for crap.
So if your stuff isn't good and you
don't really have something to say that
has what I call the three C's, which is
something that you are truly curious
about. So like you have to want to write
about it. Otherwise, energy transfers
and people are going to feel that. And
then two, a crowd. There is already like
a proven area that you're like, "Oh,
people care about this. Millennials are
into succulents. I love succulents. I'm
gonna write about succulents in a unique
perspective. And then three, cash.
I like to have an audience that is
already spending on this.
I read a funny article that millennials
spend like a monthly amount, like a not
dimminimous amount of money on plants a
month.
So, okay. So, maybe there's a newsletter
there.
Curious cash crowd. And if you have
those three things, I think you can
stand out. And then, you know, the only
thing that I think about when I think
about newsletters that's maybe a little
different is I mean, how much do you
obsess on a subject line or on a um on a
title for a YouTube video?
Way too much.
Like a lot, right? You're like really
thinking about it. You think about the
packaging, everything that goes into it.
Well, with newsletters, treat your
subject line the same way.
This is like OG internet marketing, but
nobody really thinks about it anymore.
And so the one I I giggle about still is
we had a contest back in the day with uh
the guy who was running my newsletter
and uh and they were doing like kind of
boring subject lines. I thought like too
obvious, you know, it would be like
Cody's favorite things roundup or
something like that. And it's like,
okay, that's fine. That's like a B
minus, a C plus maybe.
Um but in one particular instance, it
was about a landscaping business because
we write about boring businesses. So you
have to imagine like we have to be so
much more creative because I am talking
about [__] tree trimming.
Oh yeah.
So like like you know if it's not
creative nobody's going to read it.
Yeah.
So the we were talking about tree
trimming. They came up with two titles
which was like
he makes $22,000 a month with trimming
trees or like she
uh started a tree trimming business at
21. Right? There's some good aspects to
those dollar amount, time frame,
specifics. I was like, "Those are lazy."
And uh and I said, "I'm going to pay you
a thousand bucks if you beat my subject
line." They were like, "Definitely going
to beat it." Wrote whatever they wrote.
I sent mine and I won. Why? Because my
subject line was I love wood dot dot
dot.
You know, it's like you're gonna you're
like, "What? Cody's talking about that?"
Now, I'm not click baiting you because
it's not saying that I'm going to
deliver something else, but it's
surprising. It's like slightly
offkilter. It's a little funny. It's on
brand for us.
And so, um, if you're going to create a
newsletter, don't make it suck,
basically.
Any other subject lines that you've seen
work really well?
I mean, the couple of things that are
true always, the same with hooks, um,
statistics, studies, emotions, actions,
specific stories,
all of those do very well. Um,
and then I do think humor is important.
You can get really nitty-gritty into
like the if you put an emoji here and
caps locks there and an asterisk there.
I'm like less interested in that.
Although I'm sure there's a lot to learn
there, but I'm more like what does it
make me feel?
Yeah.
Like how do I feel? And so we talk about
that with short form video, too. I'm
like, this video made me feel nothing. I
feel nothing about this video.
And so I don't want to put that out into
the world.
Yeah. Yeah. We we borrowed something
from um Sean Pur uh and The Milk Road
because they have this opening line that
always makes you laugh. So now in our
newsletter we say like welcome to
created the newsletter that's more
satisfying than closing 27 tabs on your
Chrome browser something like that and
every time like welcome to created the
newsletter that's more vital than like
uh like Wi-Fi like on a 5 hour flight or
something something like that and like
people already like respond like that
you know that you know puts a little
smile on their face and then obviously
the info and the value is there too but
I like that. Well, and also it makes it
probably makes you guys laugh,
which is like really important too, you
know, like the newsletter that you want
a raw dog like the kids are doing these
days. Like it's that's funny. You're
like that makes me laugh.
And being a creator is like it's a lot
of work in that the
level of output you have to have today
to be relevant is huge. And I think
people underestimate that. Like
I mean we were talking to somebody
today, I won't say who yet, that's
coming on the pod who's a stud. Like
very excited. He's a big comedian and he
was sort of laughing about how
historically back in the day David
Blaine,
is that his name?
Yeah.
Magician.
The magician.
Yeah.
So, he used to do one trick and that one
trick like levitating would last for
like 10 years. It would be like the
levitating guy. Like we go to that.
That's incredible. And everybody goes
and you make however millions of dollars
off of it. And he goes, "And now
we get excited if we go off on YouTube
on one day.
Like we're viral on YouTube for one day.
You're on the homepage for YouTube for
one day. What are you doing?
celebrating. You're losing it jackpot.
And then when he said that to me, I was
giggling because he's like, "A day? How
do these [__] make money on
that?" And you're like, "You're right.
That is weird in retrospect." So like
the quantity is so high that if you
don't have some fun with it, I think
it'd probably be pretty miserable.
And also life's too short to work with
like miserable nonfun people.
Amen. um in your book you talk a lot
about like how to buy a business which
is even a concept that like just it
didn't really feel accessible and
started until I started going through
with this and I see a lot of creators
trying to start these flashy businesses
that you know you get you see the
headlines when they launch but then when
you check in on them a year later
they've gone out of business. What are
some of the most interesting examples of
creators who are starting businesses
that you feel like are smart? They're
extensions of what they're doing. The
content kind of like amplifies it. Like
take me into that world of it because I
I know you also said like making money
off of content alone is one of the worst
ideas in terms of business.
It's a terrible business model. It's a
really bad business model. I mean, what
do I mean by it's a bad business model?
Every single media company that has
become very large has struggled
financially
to the point of either going under or
having to be bought by a billionaire for
the most part. Yeah.
So, so we know that in fact playing the
game of attention with purely
information is highly problematic
like a Buzzfeed.
A Buzzfeed. A New York Times. Yeah.
Um you know, we see this again and
again. And if you think that it's bad
now in the age of Google scraping all of
our stuff, wait until AI comes for us.
you know, we're going to have AI John's
all over the place. We're going to have
AI codies. We're going to have content
ripped off, duplicated, and
increasingly, I think relevancy is going
to be hard. So, that's what you can look
forward to.
Yeah. And so, what what are the ways we
could combat that? Or what are the
businesses that you feel like a creator
like like they're just getting started,
maybe less than 100,000 subscribers,
like what should they be looking at in
terms of other ways to diversify their
income beyond some of the things we've
talked about, courses, newsletter, like
that I feel like people know about. like
take me through the business because I
think you're
Well, I think if you're a creator today
and you're not thinking about acquiring
businesses and how to get equity and
what's called distributing equity where
they keep paying you over time, you're
making a huge mistake. If you are only
living off of AdSense and you are only
lifting off even info products or
education or anything like that, you're
in trouble because I think that is very
easily scrapable. So instead, I would
obsess on becoming a dealmaker, which is
why I wrote the book. Now, I talk a lot
about boring businesses because that
that got everybody's eyeballs. Everybody
was kind of like, I understand
laundromats. I understand vending
machines. Maybe I want one of those.
Like, you can touch it somehow.
But for creators, you guys are in such a
unique position
because you have attention.
And so, um, you know, an interesting
statistic just to show you how valuable
you are is that of all venture capital
dollars spent, if there is a dollar
spent by venture capital, 40 cents of it
goes to Facebook, Amazon, Google. So,
what does that tell you?
Marketing. Yeah, it's marketing. So 40
cents of every dollar is basically going
to the non-creator version of you.
And so creators can become a huge market
by becoming marketing for these agency
for these companies. And so for
instance, let me tell you how I did it.
We talk about one in the book. This is
more in the structuring and selling you
section which is like chapter seven and
eight.
Um but in chapter seven, we talk about
one company where we get a percentage of
the company. It's a video production
company because uh I produce videos and
people ask me all the time, who do you
use?
Yeah.
And so I go, okay, well, I could partner
with all these people who are coming to
me and they want me to um you know, take
money for me to promote them. I could do
that, but uh I think I should take a cut
of the business overall and a monthly
fee for doing this. So I shouldn't go to
a huge company. I should go to a smaller
company and say, "Right now, do you make
you make, I don't know,
$50,000, $100,000 on video production a
month." Okay, cool.
What if I could double that? What if I
could take you from 50 to $100,000?
Could I take 20% of the additional
$50,000 that I bring you for clients
that I bring you? It's like you giving
me It's like me giving you money, except
it's better because it's recurring over
time.
And that's what creators should be
doing. They should be obsessing on how
to get part of a deal in the same way
they would do a partnership deal.
It takes slightly more time so you can
take some of the upfront cash, too. So,
let's say you're a small creator right
now
and you're like, I got to eat, Cody.
Like, I need the money today, too. I
can't just wait for an equity deal.
You're smart. That's exactly right.
Don't take some fly by night, hey, I'll
give you equity if I ever exit type
business deal. Yeah,
ask for distributing equity where you
get paid on a monthly or quarterly basis
while you wait to get an equity from an
exit.
And then the second part is
tell me more about that because we get
approached with a lot of deals like hey
we'll give you this equity and we we've
become wiser to kind of diversify that.
We believe in the company we'll take
equity but we try to get cash flow as
well.
Yeah. So most deals for creators look
like option one which is brand comes to
you and they say I'm going to pay you X
dollar for Y action right 50 bucks per
video.
Uh let's do it here. The right well not
the right way to do this. One way that
you could do this is brand comes to you.
They actually say the same thing but
instead of just taking money upfront 50
bucks for a video for Y action, you say
I want money plus
I want a percentage of revenue that I
drive. Mhm.
So you could say, okay, if I you pay me
50 bucks and as an affiliate partner, I
want a percentage of revenue. That's
called an affiliate deal, right? So
standard partnership, affiliate deal.
Number three might be, and this is why
dealm is so cool, you basically get to
like,
you know how when matri when Neo sees
the matrix and he's just like, whoa,
look at all this stuff you can
manipulate and play with it. Deal making
is kind of the same. Everybody else just
thinks I mean, here's a stat. 3% of
people a year negotiate their salary.
3%.
We don't even negotiate our salary.
Sometimes maybe we negotiate a little
bit more in a partnership stake, but
it's because we don't know the next
levels of the matrix. And this is what I
learned on Wall Street that I think is
so cool. So the third way to do it would
be, okay, brand wants you to do why?
Again, you're going to ask for money
from them plus you're going to ask for
equity. This would be like a stock,
right? So give me some money now and
then give me some equity later.
Yeah. Another way you do it might be
brand gives you money, they give you
equity, but you also ask for
distributing equity
for why. What is distributing equity
mean?
That means could mean a few different
ways to slice it. Could mean when you,
the owner of the business, take out
money from the business, I get a
percentage of it. So if if the equity I
get is 10% when you take $100,000 out of
the business, John, because you run the
business,
I get 10K from the business because I
have 10% of a what's called a Pratta
distribution, but that's a little nerdy.
The other way that you could do it is
let's call that option five. You could
go business
dollar equity distributing equity for Y
outcome. And the distributing equity
might actually instead be business makes
I don't know $10,000 a year.
I get a either a profit, a percentage of
the profit, the net money they make or a
percentage of the revenue of the
business of the entire business. So it's
not just if you take money out of the
business, John, it's if you make money
overall.
And so there's basically six ways from
sideways to layer this on. You could
also say if you were not cash strapped,
you might just say, "Hey, I actually
don't want any money. Keep your money."
But I want a bigger percentage of the
equity and I want a bigger percentage of
the distribution for Y.
So this is likely what Logan Paul did
with Prime, right?
And just so it's super clear, can you
explain distributed equity one more time
versus like a rev share?
Yeah. Well, so revshare means if my
business makes $1 million a year in
total revenue
and I own uh you know 10% of the
business and get paid on the total
revenue of the business then I make 10%
of 1 million which is what
public math 100k.
Yeah.
Okay. So I make 100k in this scenario.
Yeah. In scenario two, the business
makes $1 million in revenues a year,
but
the owner of the business only takes out
a 100K
in distributions, which is why it's
called
distributing equity. Distributions is a
fancy way. It's like a tax reason to say
that I took money out of the business.
It's not my salary. It's above and
beyond salary as the owner of the
business, which means if you own 10% of
the distributed equity, you get 10% of
100K.
Yeah. which is a lot less.
Yeah. So, you only get 10K.
There we go. Thank you.
That's interesting because now now as a
business owner, I'm like I'm not taking
money out of the business. So, that may
happen less if that's the type of deal
versus a revshare is obviously, you
know, like you're pulling revenue and
you define like the date if it's every
six months every year.
Yeah. And I mean, and then a profit
share would be like $1 million in
revenue a year the business makes, but
the business only makes 100k in profit
that year. Which means again, if you
have 10% of the profit share, you're
taking 10K home.
Okay. Wow. So th this is I've never seen
it broken down like this. This is um
this is amazing for each of these six
things. So the why is is like an output
like you have to post this many times
about it or you have to bring in this
many referrals or like you kind of have
to define what those deliverables are
with the brand.
Yeah. And there's two ways to do that
with the brand. So why is your
deliverables? You're exactly right. Oh
my gosh, I should have been a doctor
with this handwriting. But how you can
also mess with dealmaking a different
way is you can have either input related
deliverables or output related
deliverables.
So an input related deliverable might be
something like two IG posts, three
lives. These are things that you can are
activity based input based.
Got it? Output goals are things like
hundred thousand views,
uh 10,000 customers,
$10,000 in value, you know, a hundred
new customers. Yeah.
Which one do you think brands pay more
for?
The ladder.
Output. Yeah. Which ones do we usually
negotiate for as creators?
Inputs.
The first one. So, if you're confident
in your ability to deliver results,
you'd probably want to do output goals.
And you'd want to say, I think I'm going
to crush this. I want to get a
percentage of every customer I bring in
over 10K because I'm going to kill it.
In the beginning, when you don't know
what you're doing, you probably say,
"Dad, I don't know. I probably want to
have input related because I don't know
how this is going to land with my
audience."
And so the basically everything in deal
making comes down to risk transfer.
Yeah.
It's like who holds the risk and who has
more of it
and the person that has less risk
typically uh gets less reward and the
person with more risk gets more reward.
Yeah. And I guess the big caveat with
this is because I think a lot of
creators see big brands that sponsor a
ton of creators. But yeah, I guess the
nuance here is like maybe there's that
local studio near you that you could
partner with or may maybe there's a a
business that like is around you or that
you're using a lot. Like I know you
talked about like the Venmo method.
Yeah. Where you look at like where are a
lot of the
people or the vendors you're transacting
with and can you do a partnership with
them because totally people may be
asking what studio do you use? What
editor do you use and try to partner up
with them?
Yeah. I mean, they're a bigger company.
A way to think about that might be you
asked me in the beginning about what my
pie chart was. Like, how how do I make
money?
Yeah.
And I said, well, I think I make I don't
really know the exact answer to this,
but let's say most of my money from my
companies, companies that I own a large
percentage of. And then I might make, I
don't know, something smaller from
partnerships and sponsorships would be
traditional ads. And then I might make I
don't know another amount from our
education business overall. And then I
might make the rest from like speaking
and book etc. Right. So my pie chart as
a creator is like largely my companies.
Yeah.
But if I was brand new and I wasn't from
a private equity background, your pie
chart is probably like in the beginning
like the whole thing might be well in
the beginning it's probably what
AdSense.
So you probably have like two things.
You have like AdSense and then you have
partnerships.
Yeah.
And there's some split between the two
of them,
right?
What I would want to do if I was a
creator kind of just starting out is
figure like what's my monthly nut.
Like how much money do I have to make
every month in order to cover my costs
and that I'd probably want covered by
AdSense and partnerships. Like give me
cash. Yeah. Because I got to I got to
protect this thing,
right?
But anything above and beyond my monthly
nut, I want to take like a little bit of
risk. and risk looks like affiliates
equity, distributing equity, revenue
share, profit share.
And so, um, I think what you should take
away from all this, if this feels like,
[__] me, we're looking at so many
numbers and we got pie charts and I
thought I left finance. What you might
want to take away is just
if you can learn the language of money,
which is really deal, you'll never be
poor. I truly believe that because you
will understand how wealthy people think
and you will understand how companies
make money and you make more money when
you understand how people who make money
make money.
Yeah.
And so um so what I would do is obsess
on dealm which is why I wrote the book
and why I won't shut up about it on the
internet.
I love it. Could you give me just to
make this even more accessible like what
are other examples of like businesses
that you feel like creators or like
people who are making content are
uniquely like positioned to help out or
partner with because there's a lot I
mean another stat that you had in the
book that blew my mind was that there's
so many boomers who have businesses who
are about to retire
um and they'll let go of a very
profitable business just because
they they they don't have anybody to
give it to their kids want to dance on
TikTok instead of like taking it over.
Yep.
Um well, give me just more ideas of like
businesses that a creator may be
uniquely positioned to take on um to
help diversify the pie chart.
Yeah. Well, first of all, you got to
realize that there's something happening
all around us right now, which is we
have what's called the silver tsunami or
the great wealth transfer. So 75 million
businesses up for sale in the next 10
years, let's call it. Most of these
businesses, 60% are owned by baby
boomers. Their kids don't want to take
over their businesses. Yet, that is
where somewhere around $68 trillion in
wealth is located.
The fascinating part though, and you
would probably know this firsthand, like
how much of your net worth is tied up in
your businesses?
A lot.
90% on average.
So, most small business owners, if
they're 65 plus, they have no transition
plan. They have to exit. They need to
figure out a way to sell some portion of
this business.
And so, we've created a group where we
focus on on a community of people
teaching other people how to do seller
financing. So, how do you get an aging
baby boomer business owner to trust you
to take over their business and you pay
them through a percentage of future
profits?
So, for creators, what would that look
like? Well, you'd be really different
and you would you would it wouldn't
really matter if you were relevant
forever, which is something I think
about as a creator.
If you started taking a percentage of
companies that you interact with, so how
would I think about this? Right now,
we're sitting in a studio. It's not
yours, right?
Then you pay a dollar amount to come and
right and work here. criteria,
right? So, what could you do? Well, you
could talk to this studio that's
probably owned by an independent person
and say, "Hey, I got this big thing
where I talk about creators all the
time. My entire audience is literally
creators.
How much revenue do you guys do at this
business? Like, how big is this
business?" Oh, you make about $20,000 a
month. You own this place, but you have
it set up as a business. Is it
profitable? Oh, it's profitable a month.
Okay, cool. Well, what if I could like
How much capacity do you have? Are you
like overwhelmed with capacity? Do you
have more? Oh, wow. You're only
operating at 30% capacity. What if I
could fill this for you? Do you think I
could own like if I filled it for you or
damn near close, could I own half of the
business that I drive to you in
distributing equity or in equity or in
revenue share of this property plus the
business that sits on it.
And you might have to like negotiate the
terms a little bit, but let me tell you
what, I bet most studios today are
struggling. And if they had a built-in
marketing mechanism, aka you, and you
just got paid a little thousand, $2,000
check a month from this studio plus a
studio in New York plus a studio in
Austin plus a studio somewhere else.
You'd probably be pretty happy and so
would they.
So like that's one way to do it,
right? You could also do it with like
you talked about how some of your
podcast editing you outsourced to this
agency.
What happens when you talk about that
agency online?
Like do they get a lot of users? I bet.
Yeah. Yeah. They've gotten a lot more.
Well, now we get to a point where like
we have like uh the agency does the
graphics and we try to bring all the
editing inhouse, but that graphics
agency has got a lot more work because
we've talked about them online. Yeah.
Did you get anything for that,
John? Okay. So, there's your
opportunity. Now, we want to be giving.
We don't need to
I was trying to be generous with Well,
here's how I think about it. Be
generous. And what is the most generous
thing you can do? have a partnership
that is mutually beneficial that
continues to allow both parties to have
a symbiotic relationship where they make
more money.
And so that's what you would do. You're
being nice by mentioning them sometimes.
But would it be nicer if they had a
consistent marketing partner that was
always talking about them?
Maybe.
And so because of that, you could go to
the owner of that business and say,
"Hey, you know, you kill it for us. I'd
love to give you more credit. Can we
walk through how much money your
business makes? Sort of what your
returns are, what your margin is, which
is how much you make between what it
costs you to run the business and uh how
much profit you keep in your pocket. And
if you like those numbers and you like
the guy or gal that runs the business,
then you'd say, "Well, why don't we
figure something out between the two of
us?"
And I think a lot more creators could do
that than they assume.
Wow.
You got to tell me if you close these
deals.
Yeah, that's fascinating.
Yeah. Um, another thing I feel like a
lot of creators don't do is taking their
content, taking on the road and making
money public speaking.
I pulled up these stats about you that I
thought was fascinating. In your first
year getting paid to speak on stages,
you made 3K. Then the second year, you
made 25K. Then the third year of public
speaking, you made 90K. And in your most
recent year, you made over a half a
million dollars public speaking.
Yeah, that's definitely probably true.
Maybe higher.
Um, how do you make money public
speaking as a creator when you're I I
feel like we're in a unique position
that we think about the content on
camera. We could take it on the road. We
built an audience. We're building a
brand yet so few creators make money
speaking on stages. Like what advice
would you give to somebody to start
getting paid
to be on stage because
events, corporations, like there's no
shortage of it post lockdown.
No, that's true. Well, two things. One,
I also think speaking is a terrible way
to make money.
So, the reason I don't do a lot of
speaking typically is because, think
about it, it's a transactional business.
I don't really love transactional
businesses, as you probably hear from
now. So, like
the reason we've done a lot of speaking
this year, which is probably north of
seven figures, is is the book. It's like
we we go we talk about the book, we hope
they buy a bunch of copies, or we they
pay us, but we instead invested in more
copies of the book that we send out to
people. Now, in the beginning, who cares
if it's a good business model or not?
when you're young, you're like,
$500,000, I will do things I shouldn't
for that. And uh and so that's cool. But
what I would say is um speaking itself
because it's really transactional is
hard. And so it's a volatile thing that
you can't really track.
Now, if you don't care about any of that
and you just want to do it anyway, I
would say your most important thing is
the same thing that you do on YouTube or
anywhere else, which is who's your
avatar, who are you serving,
why do they find value from you, and can
you overserve them?
Yeah. So for me, I'm a little lucky and
that my niche is finance and like it's
kind of a perfect example. If I can
truly if I really am an expert in buying
and selling businesses and I can teach a
group of creators
from coming and speaking to them how to
immediately make tens of thousand
dollars, tens of thousands of dollars a
month through doing like one or two
deals,
I'm very valuable to the sponsor of that
event.
Yeah.
And so I think you have to ask yourself,
how do you become really valuable? Now,
now the trick is like my f friend
Vanessa Van Edwards who's a big YouTuber
too, she's actually more valuable as a
speaker and gets paid more than I do
because she helps big corporations get
more out of their employees. So, how
much will Google or Amazon pay as
opposed to like VidCon?
VidCon's going to be way down here and
Google and Amazon are going to be up
here. They're going to pay her $100,000
to come talk to their employees and get
their leadership excited because their
ability to ROI on that is bajillions
technical term. So, um, that's one
thing. And then, you know what I would
say is even if you go speak, what do you
have to do? You have to negotiate your
contract with them. You have to figure
out, are there other things I can put on
the table besides you just paying me a
flat fee?
And so, it all kind of comes back to
this idea of like we got to remember how
to do deals and that it's okay. It's
very like unamerican to think about
how do we structure a deal on stuff? How
do we ask for equity? It probably makes
people feel uncomfortable even thinking
about it. And yet the richest people in
the world, that's how they do it.
Well, I think it's even more true for
YouTubers and creators because we're
programmed to chase views,
you know, and it's like I I I think that
there's so many things that you could
share that show, okay, no, here's how
you could turn a hobby or a side hustle
or something that's getting a lot of
views into an actual business because
the way you've been able to do it just
has blown me away in in so many
instances.
Well, thanks. I mean I stole the I think
I added one level but Naval Ravocant who
founded Angelist um amongst other things
talked about the three levels of
leverage and how the first and leverage
basically meaning the way that you get
more for every action you take and
really the key to money often and wealth
and success is leverage. Um if you were
to go to the richest people in the world
all of them are levered with debt. All
of them are levered with these things
that Naval talks about and the first one
is labor right? So you think about the
first titans of the world, they were uh
people who could command a huge labor
force. So that would be back in the day
like the pharaohs, those that was slave
labor, you know, then it would be surfs,
then eventually it became employees,
right? And then after labor, you had
capital like the big Rockefellers and
the Titans of industry were created
after the banking act was created in the
US. And so capital created like titans
of industry. And then finally you had
code right which is how Bill Gates um
how Warren how uh Elon Musk a lot of
them have like an army of robots at
their fingertips. Once I thought about
the world that way I realized if I want
more money
I can use more employees or I could use
more money to get more money or I could
use code. Well that's kind of confusing.
I don't know how to do that. But I could
definitely use audience or attention.
Yeah.
And that's basically what we have today.
Audience. and it's the most
permissionless form of leverage out
there. And so once I realized that I
could use attention and audience in the
same way as I could capital, I just sort
of restructured our business like I
would a finance business
and I think any creator doing that
today, you have way more power than you
think.
Um, how do you think about courses and
like info products? That's another area
where like I I feel like there's a lot
of baggage, but you've done a great job
of like selling, you know, like like I I
mean these numbers kind of like stood
out to me. you have a $100 course, a
$2,000 accelerator, and you have a
$10,000 course in community. Like, how
did you think about the price points?
Like,
how well are those doing? Like, I feel
like a lot of creators can also package
up what they say into these courses, but
maybe not a lot of them do because it's
hard to price yourself in many ways. How
have you thought about that?
I think there's two reasons people don't
do info products. One is because people
on the internet tell you that it is
better to go invest somebody else's
money than teach them how to do the
investing. There's a lot of people that
look down on education products. And I
can see why because one, universities
are a huge institution that has sort of
monopolized the idea of teaching another
person. I think it's criminal and
they're totally overrated. And if you
look at the actual numbers for
educational institutions today, we have
had a 3 to 4x incline in the cost of
universities and we have had a flatline
of return meaning our salary increases
after university. So for me I got like
on my again on my moral high ground
here. It was like why did I go to an MBA
at Georgetown? I mean if I want to climb
a corporate ladder it's very useful.
Having that on there is much better than
Arizona State, Harvard of the West where
I went to undergrad, right? Like way
better. But if I don't want to climb the
corporate ladder, that $160,000 degree
or whatever it was, that really didn't
teach me much of anything and I'm and I
then then they say, "Well, it's for the
network. I don't know better network by
meeting people like you guys at
conferences than that." I think it's I
think that's a scam.
And so once I started to realize that my
mom's a 30-year special education
teacher, I was like, I think we can I
think we can go to war with those guys.
I think we can be a better financial
education company and we can teach
people more about getting financial
freedom than a Wharton degree.
Wow. You're targeting my my ultimate.
Well, I use Wharton because I think they
are the best finance school out there.
Yeah. I think NYU Stern is like second,
but I it's not Harvard and MIT and
Stanford are actually incredible for
entrepreneurship and engineering
degrees, but Wharton's like the cream of
the crop in finance. And I can't tell
you, sorry, Wharton grads, I can't tell
you how many of them I meet who come up
to me. One came up the other day and I
just it just tickles my little taint.
But um this guy came up to me and he's
like, "Uh, what was he?" Oh, no. This
was to Chris, my husband.
Moral of the story, uh, dude comes up.
We're like, "Hey, how's it going? Who
are you?" He's like, "Oh, you know, I'm
so and so. What are you up to?" And he
says, "I am a um independent sponsor,"
which is a fancy Wharton way of saying,
"I'm buying a business." Oh,
that's literally fake vernacular about
I'm buying a business.
Come on, dude. Who is that guy? Get a
bad rap. Come on.
Bad rap. So anyway, I'm like, "Oh, okay,
cool. You're going to buy a business?
That's awesome." He's like, "Yeah, you
know, I've been doing it for 14 months.
you know, it's going really well. My
gosh, all right, cool. I'm like, well,
we do a little bit of that. If I can
help at all, like here for you. He's
like, no, I don't need any help. I'm
nailing it. And of course, my husband's
kind of a smartass, so he goes, 14
months search. Awesome. You're nailing
it. And thank God Chris is a rascal
because I'm not as much. But the point
being, like I think they give people a
false sense of the real world. Like when
I left Georgetown and I was, you know,
at Goldman and some of these other
places, yeah, it helped people maybe
take me more seriously, but like you
going to Wharton or me going to
Georgetown does not mean that I know
more than a guy who's actually run a
real P&L business.
Oh yeah. And I feel like I've learned
more like afterwards like running this
business with Amanda than like I don't
know. There's so many things and I never
fully felt like I was studying
marketing, entrepreneurship, less
finance, but yeah, I think you're spot
on.
Yeah. No, I mean and I think that's
where people go sideways. So anyway, so
I feel good about us creating an
education business a thousand%. Even
though there are people that don't like
that online and I think a lot of people
don't like it online. I I don't really
understand why except that there are
people who are scammy
but I think the ultimate scam is six
figures in debt that you can never shake
off
because the government doesn't allow you
to, which is what happens with student
loans.
And so that's a hill I'll die on. Um, so
I feel really good about what we do
there. It's a big business, you know,
that's an eight figureure business a
year. Wow.
And, uh, we're working on accreditation
with some local universities.
Um, and my plan is that I want to build
that out to be a real institution, but
at 100th of the cost,
which I think is actually doable and and
feasible. Um, and I talk a lot with like
Michaela Peterson and Jordan Peterson
who are trying to do the same thing with
philosophy and with uh, liberal arts.
And so, um, so I'm inspired by that. But
if you're a young creator, I think one,
um, if you have something that other
people ask you about consistently and
they're like, "John, I don't know how to
run a podcast. I wish somebody could
show me how to set this all up, what all
the equipment is, um, where you got it,
how you could get on a discount, what's
really necessary, what are the stages to
it." I don't think there's anything
wrong with you saying, "Oh, yeah, I put
that together. Here's a one pager on it.
It's all affiliate links. Let me send it
out." M
like let's normalize learning from each
other like we used to apprenticeship
instead of going to a big institution
and feeling like academics who have
never actually done the thing that
they're teaching you. They've never
actually practitioned, they've just been
a theorist going to teach you better
than somebody who's actually done the
damn thing.
Do you have any other advice like like
for creators who are trying to be more
business savvy like understand the
language of dealm because I think it's
foreign to a lot of us.
Yeah. Um what other advice do I have?
Well, one, like whenever you I think a
lot of people
will, for instance, we have a community
where we teach people to buy and sell
businesses. And sometimes people will
say, "Well, $10,000 seems like a lot of
money."
Yeah.
And then they'll say, "Well, why don't I
just take the $10,000 and I go invest in
a business?"
And I'll say, "You should do whatever
you want."
Um, but if you didn't know how to invest
in the stock market and you had $10,000
and you just went and threw it at the
stock market, what do you think's going
to happen? you're not going to know how
to invest and make more money. And so
it's the same with like buying a
business. You have to you have to invest
in the education before you can actually
make money on the investment. So I think
the biggest thing for creators today is
like lean into even just like 10% of
your time figuring out the business
behind creators.
Um because where did I see this the
other day? Um, oh, Alex Cooper, she had
a she had a Vanity Fair, I think, cover
shot, and it was titled I'm a
[__] in business.
Yeah.
And I loved that. Because she is. She's
an incredible podcaster, but that [__]
knows business. And because of that,
she's one of the biggest podcasters in
the world. Why?
Because it costs money to get attention.
I don't care what you say. I mean, Mr.
Beast is a perfect example of it. He
just spends and spends and spends in
order to get eyeballs. And if you think
that you know the best people who make
attention don't do the same thing,
you're crazy. And so I would say become
a [__] in business. Like know what know
actually the business side of things and
remove this idea that like
creators don't understand business or
I'm an artist and I don't have to. Like
u there's a great book um that's um
uh it's like real artists don't starve.
Have you ever read that book?
Um not that one. I I read uh the one.
No,
Art of War or or War of Art.
Uh no, I haven't read that one. I don't
know. But tell me about it. Yeah. Yeah.
That's one reference I didn't get, Cody.
Yeah.
Oh, one. Okay. One for five is pretty
good. So, I can summarize both books for
you in a sentence. One is
real artists Don't Starve. What does
that mean? That they know how to make
money and they obsess on it. You can
skip the book now. And so, so I think
that's really important. Like, how do
you become a really good business
person? Because that will allow you to
do more art. It's just resources. The
other thing that resources and money do
is they decrease stress. Like I don't
think they make you happy, but they
certainly decrease misery.
And so if you can decrease misery by not
doing the tasks you want to do, then you
can become really wealthy. So become
very obsessed with dealm especially
creators. Yeah.
Because you have real leverage.
Yeah.
It's actually sometimes harder for
people who are listening who are like
I'm a nineto-five employee and I have no
attention online and I have no capital
and I have no skill set. Then I would
say you have to work a really long time,
really hard, increase your skill stack,
take risk, and increase your
connections, and then you could play
this game.
Yeah. Um, a lot of people will say you
have the number one business channel on
YouTube. Um, other people may say, um,
you know, you're the most powerful
businesswoman on YouTube with like your
investments. You're be able to bring
exposure to them. Um, but there's a
quote in your book from your dad that
really stuck with me in that like you're
not in the game until you're in the dark
of the night, your hand is your head is
in your hands and uh you're facing a lot
of the [__] that goes on behind the
scenes. Um, what's a moment where you
know your head has been in your hands
and kind of we've talked about a lot of
your success, a lot of the money you've
made. What's been some of those hard
moments?
H, you know, um, business is so hard. I
think it might be one of the hardest
games out there to play. Um, just this
week, for instance, I was just writing a
little a little video about uh this week
one of my company's uh payment processor
uh shut them down and they took $200,000
in recurring monthly income from them
and won't give them back their users.
So, that just killed a business of like
$2 million a year in revenue and we
can't get our users back.
Oh, wow.
Um, so I'm having a fun Twitter battle
with that right now.
And uh so that was awful. Another
business was about eight weeks out from
running out of cash. They like called me
flippantly about it. We're like the
thing is we're a little cash strapped.
I'm like let's define little like eight
weeks we're basically insolvent. I was
like that's not we can't have that.
What's going on?
And we had to spend you know kind of our
vacation over the summer really diving
into this business turning the entire
business around and making sure that it
didn't die. Um, long nights, no sleep,
lots of stress, raised voices, people
not wanting to do what they had to do,
people getting fired. Um, you know, I
had another business of mine. Actually,
contrarian thinking, at one point, I put
somebody in charge of the business.
And, you know, my fault, I thought they
were really good operator. I was
actually running the holding company and
talent, which felt like a lot at the
time. And my fault I didn't catch it,
but they were running the finances
wrong. And we were almost out of cash.
was four weeks for running out of cash.
Oh wow.
And so um
this is the media company. Oh wow. You
put somebody else in charge of it at one
point.
Yeah. Well, yeah, it was like somebody
else who was running a portion of it. I
won't be too specific because I don't
want to call them out, but um if I
hadn't literally been accum like if you
want to go and get loans for companies,
they require an analysis of all your
debt and your cash situations. And so if
I hadn't been looking at our debt
profile and thought like that number
seems off from this, I wouldn't have
caught it. And like, do we have plenty
of cash and we could have pumped it in?
Yeah, thankfully. But what if like our
payroll had all just died one Friday and
I didn't tell anybody? Like, would my
employees have trusted me again with
that?
And so, um, there are so many moments.
Um, but I think, you know, I do go back
to the Warren Buffett adage, which is
like I'll forgive any an employee any
mistake, uh, except one that costs us
our reputation. And so the thing that
keeps me up the most at night is like,
do I always feel like we're doing the
right thing?
You know, uh, do I feel like we have
enough checks and balances in place to
make sure that we're compliant and we're
being truthful and honest? Because I
think we have a huge responsibility as
creators. I mean, we saw the media [__]
it up royally, right? Like they
literally we have the lowest level of
trust as a society of media ever.
um we actually uh are lower than some
third world countries which is usually
the opposite and so I think about that
as creators too like we have a real
responsibility to make sure it's uh
let's see what does Jordan Peterson says
he says um tell the truth or maybe at
least just don't lie
and so I obsess on that a lot like if
people are listening to how to grow
wealth and how to grow businesses and
how to buy them
am I making sure that they have what
they need
in order to do so
that's what keeps me up at
You also had a really honest uh post on
X that's like your biggest regret is not
prioritizing marriage
sooner. Can you tell me about that? I
was stunned to read that from you given
all the business success you've had.
Yeah, I mean I was married before uh I'm
remarried now and
I was real young when I got married the
first time and I kind of let other
people's opinions of who I should be and
how I should be um reflect on to me
and you know sometimes I think we marry
people and in that instance like he
thought I was going to be one type of
person and I never was like I never was
going to just like be the type of person
that he wanted. I was always going to be
kind of a psychopath in business and I
really like it
and I now I get to work with my husband
which is like the best thing ever. Um
and back then,
you know, I wasn't honest with myself
and you know and and he probably wasn't
honest with himself and um and so the
second time around uh I was really
serious like if I'm going to do this
again, I'm gonna do everything in my
power to do it one more time and that's
it. And I think, you know, in the early
days of marriage, it took a long time to
I was I was older by that point and you
become kind of this collection of things
as a human as you get older. You get
more
you're like more brittle. You don't move
as easily.
And so I had become a person that was
like a little bit more serious and so
was he. He's a former Navy Seal, so he's
like very strict. And um and it took us
the first year of like really battling
one another until we finally got to a
place where we realized like this is the
most important thing we'll ever do. If
we [__] everything else up, oh well, as
long as we do well by this.
And I wish I would have realized that
earlier because it's my greatest gift.
Like all these businesses and all that
is super cool, but when I wake up in the
morning, he's my favorite part. like
sounds whatever, but like reaching over
having a snuggle with your human and
knowing that like they got your back
even when you want to murder them like
the night before, you know, is is really
special. And so I think we were told a
lie on that, too. It's like marriage is
hard. It has to be hard. Marriage is
work, but it is so worth it when you
obsess on finding the right person, I
think, and becoming the right person. I
should probably say even more than that.
Well said. Yeah. And to bring things
full circle, I know you started your
career as a journalist. You went to the
border of US and Mexico. C can you just
talk about some of the things you
learned there and maybe some of the
perspective that that set forth for
everything that you're doing today?
Because as a first generation immigrant,
I think that really stuck with me. I
just wanted to again, your family.
I'm from Chicago. My parents uh escaped
from Iran during the revolution of 79.
Yeah. Um I think you you and I probably
have a simil similar view. we talked
about a little bit before, but um man,
when you've seen what can happen in a
third world country, um you have a lot
more respect for what we get here. Like
we're a messed up family, but we're
still a family, you know? And I think um
you know, I was thinking today like we
did a post that said like, you know, no
president can save you. Like it's up to
you.
And like no matter who becomes
president, they're not going to save
you. But what they can do is they can
really hurt you.
And so nobody else can make you rich.
That's only you. But a bad political
regime can really um it can nuke a
country. And I, you know, when I was uh
younger, I was a journalist on the US
Mexico border. I was still in college.
It was my senior year. And I graduated a
year early to take this like basically
year going back and forth between Wares
and El Paso. And um and at the time they
called Wararez um uh Suda de Muerto de
Muerte. And uh and basically that means
a city of death, right? And they called
it that because along the the Wares
desert there, they would find basically
daily um women being that had been
brutally murdered, chopped apart, raped.
I mean, things you can't imagine. And um
and I remember at the time I was writing
stories about it and I would go to the
morg like every couple days because
there were two newspapers. There was a
there was a newspaper that was
controlled by the cartel. I can never
remember if it was the Sinnoloan or the
Snoring Cartel and one controlled by the
government and both would report
different numbers of women that were
missing and a lot of times that was an
indicator of like who killed them like
what happened here
and whether they wanted that to come out
or not. And so every single day I got to
look in the face to see young women who
had long brown hair, brown eyes, last
names like Sanchez, right in my age
range. And I would look at these women
that
not only were they brutally killed, but
nobody cared. I mean, could you imagine
if every day in your city they found
women's body parts daily, different
ones? Like, we would never let that
happen in the US every day
to the tune of thousands. And yet, it
was happening in Mexico. And it really
it [__] me up. I couldn't I was like,
what's the difference? Because it wasn't
actually that they were Mexican. It was
that they were poor and they had no
money and no resources. And so, nobody
cared. And so they had little paper
signs all over the city of these women's
faces who all looked the same. It it was
wild. And so I think from that moment I
realized, man, power is money.
And um if we can get more of it, then we
can push back on bad things happening in
the world.
And that's what made me go into finance.
I was going to go into law. And uh and
then I realized like I think in a lot of
ways law is it's it's it follows. it
doesn't lead and money can lead. And so
for that reason, um, I changed. And I
think that's probably why I still care a
lot about politics, too, because I got
to see so many politicians who didn't
care in Mexico and would say one thing.
And then, you know, we also had
businesses in Latin America where
certain politicians came in and
they nationalized all the industry in
the countries. And um and you know, one
of the countries I had to fly in an
airplane, get the last plane out of
there because what we were doing had
become illegal, which was just changing
uh investments from that country's local
currency to USD.
Um which is like, think about that for a
minute. Your president makes it so that
if you're you take your money out and
you put it in US dollar somewhere not
located in that country, you're legal.
And um and so I've seen the effects of
it. And I I think it's so important that
we get as much money as we can so we can
have freedom and push back on rules we
don't like. And also I do think it's
important that we kind of skin in the
game as creators. And maybe this is my
little call to action for you guys. Like
what I'd ask for you like I'll teach you
everything you need to know about deal
making. I can make you a millionaire. If
you read the book, if you learn the
lessons in there and you get equity and
you do good deals, you can become a
millionaire. That is actually totally
possible. But what maybe I'd ask for in
return is what are you doing with that
power? And it it doesn't mean you got to
become like virtue signaling or anything
like that, but like realize that you
have a real platform and ability to make
change. And I think it is your moral
responsibility to do as much as you
humanly can with that and to try to help
your fellow man if at all possible.
That's beautifully said. I'm so thankful
that you're sharing this stuff
unapologetically and uh I mean what you
just showed us I feel like is a master
class that nobody ever talks about.
Um so thanks for putting in the YouTube
videos the book uh which I can't wait
for people to pick up. We'll put a link
down below and just uh everything you
talked about Cody I'm just cheering you
on. Excited to see what else you'll do
next.
Well same. And I want to hear from you
guys. If you buy a business tell us.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Uh and um and tell us the feedback you
think about the frameworks we shared
too. I really hope it does make you guys
money.
Yeah. Yeah. I can't wait.
This was fun.
Thank you, Cody. Thanks for coming out.
Thanks for doing my public math, too.
Wharton is good for something,
you know.
Oh my god. Thanks for coming out, Cody.
My pleasure. Amazing.